If we want to design applications that are resilient to provider failure,
we need to start thinking about how to use infrastructure providers redundantly.
Let's take a look at what I mean.
First, let's imagine we have a sample serverless service.
This service relies on AWS DynamoDB tables and the API Gateway.
Let's say we're running our application code one day and AWS has an
outage related to the services that we're using.
We decide that the outage is bad enough that next time we need to
try and replicate our service on another provider.
So what do we do to prepare for this?
First, there's the issue of replicating the data between data stores.
For now let's assume that we take advantage of a solution that dual
writes the data and that we're able to do this.
The next problem is that the function code we're using is written
specific for AWS and relies on AWS libraries and SDKs.
We can't assume that another provider will be able
to work with our service code, so how do we solve this problem?
Well, we need to abstract our code.
Rather than writing functions and services that only work with specific writers,
we can write more generalized code that relies on a build and configuration
process to be bundled with infrastructure specific libraries.
That way if one infrastructure provider goes under,
we're still able to keep our service running on another provider.
When we think about building applications like this that
can integrate with multiple clouds,
one of the key issues is how we get these clouds to work together.
Fortunately for us, the folks at Serverless Inc have been working on that too.
In August 2017, Serverless Inc, the company behind the serverless framework,
announced a tool that they're backing called the event gateway.
This tool allows you to share cross cloud functions and events with AWS Lambda,
Microsoft Azure, IBM Open Whisk, and Google Cloud Platform.
Now this sounds perfect for developing these
infrastructure independent applications,
but because this tool is so new,
I won't be covering it in detail within this course.
But let's quickly take a high level look at how it works.
With the event gateway,
you can collect events from multiple clouds and
centralize them through the tool.
This allows you to receive the events on any cloud,
not just the one they originated on.
This gives you some incredible flexibility when it comes to determining which
cloud should deal with which events under what circumstances.
It also allows you to trigger functions on any cloud to
respond to events from any cloud.
Additionally,
it can centralize these events from disparate cloud providers to get a better
understanding of all the data flowing through everywhere.
Teams can take a closer look at whatever events they'd like and even add
additional functions and services on top of those existing events.
Now to me this all sounds super exciting,
but be sure to check back in on this project after folks have started
testing its abilities and adopting it for their purposes.
As for any new project, only time will really tell how it evolves.
Next,
let's take a look at some components and tools that we'll need
while developing multi-platform services.
For any multi-platform service,
you're going to need to start with generalized function code.
The code will perform the core business logic of your application.
It will need to be supported by platform-specific libraries,
enrich the functionality on a platform-specific basis.
This might range from libraries you develop to help work with
infrastructure providers to tooling that you use to help monitor
code on one provider versus another.
You'll also likely need the set of SDKs specific to the
infrastructure provider you're working with.
You may need to use your own libraries to abstract these
SDKs and make generalized code possible.
And finally,
you'll have to evaluate what specific IaaS services that you'll
be able to use to substitute for one another.
For example, you'll need to ask the question,
what can you use to substitute for the API Gateway or
DynamoDB on a separate provider?
But right now all of this is kind of conceptual.
So in a moment,
we'll take a look at some specific ways we can improve the resilience of our applications.